Text is converted to tokens and subtokens which is then converted to vector embeddings for the llm to understand. 
In GPT like LLM's byte pair encoding is generally done. 

Understanding word embeddings:

Deep neural networks like LLM's cannot process text directly. Since texts are categorical, matematical operations 
cannot be performed on them. Hence we need a way to represent texts in the form of vectors. 
The process of converting text to a vector is called embeddings. 
Using another layer or another pretrained neural network we can embed different data types like audio, video
text, images etc. 
We can embedd words, sentences, paragraphs entire doucments. Word embeddings are more common. 
Sentence or paragraph embeddings are common for retrievel augumented generation. 
Many frameworks and approaches have be proposed to convert words to embeddings. One popular approach is the
word2vec approach. 
In this approach a neural netowrk was trained to generate embeddings by predicting the context of a word given a 
target word. The main idead behind this is that words that have similar contexts tend to be together. 
Word embeddings can have dimensions varying from one to thousands. A high dimensional embedding can capture 
more nuanced relationships at the cost of computational efficiency. 
In LLM's we don't use word2vec or anyother network... the embedding layer is baked into the input layer.
This has advantages that we will learn later. 
Having high dimensional embeddings can be tradeoff between performance and efficiency. In GPT-2 and GPT-3 models,
the embedding sizes are 768, 12,288 dimensions. 

Steps used by an LLM for preparing tokens: splitting texts into words, converting words into tokens, and turning
tokens into embedding vectors. 

Removing whitespaces depends from application to application. Removing white spaces helps in reducing memory 
and computing requirements. It's neccessary to keep qhite spaces to understand text strucure for example in the case 
training the LLM in python code. 

After creating tokens we need to assign these tokens a unique token ID. The embeddings are stored in a matrix
called the embedding_matrix. So basically what's happening the text "There is a cat" gets broken down into
["There","is","a","cat"]. What happens is a unique token id is generated and stored in a dictionary. 
{"There":0,"is":1,"a":2,"cat":3}. The embedding matrix is obv. a matrix lol, and each row corresponds
(the row represents the token id) the embedding. This is important because during the training stage of an llm,
the embeddings are not constant and keep changing. 

The vocabulary that's used needs to be vast and diverse enough otherwise we get key not found error. 

The tokenizer cannot handle unkown words, so we need to modify it... We also need to add specialised tokens that
enhance the models undertanding and context for the given text. These specialised tokens can include markers for 
unkown words, and document bounderies. So in the next version of the tokenizer will give it support for two new 
words those are  <|unk|> and <|endoftext|>. (Represent new words that were not part of training. Seperates two
unrelated text document)
In GPT like LLM's when training them on independent and unrelated documents, books it's common to include the 
<|endoftext|> token to tell the llm that eventhough the texts have been concatenated to teach it, the documents
are unrelated and needs to be treated independently. 

Byte Pair Encoding:
-A more sophisticated tokenization scheme. This scheme was used to train GPT's like GPT-2 GPT-3. Applying 
the concept of byte pair encoding can be a relativley difficult we will use a python library that does this 
very efficiently (built in rust)
Using the tiktoken we can see that the <|endoftext|> is assigned a very large value. 
One cool aspect of byte pair encdoing is that it never uses <|unk|> it always knows the word. How?
The algorithm underlying BPE breaks down out of vocabulary words into subwords or into indivudal characters...
These characters are in the vocabulary. 

Data Sampling with a sliding window:

The next step for creating an embedding is to create input-target pairs required for training an llm. 

What happens during the training stage of an LLM. 
Let's say during the training, We input "The cat sat on the mat."
We run the following processes in parallel and compute the cost. 
input: The ,target: cat
input: The cat ,target : sat
input: The cat sat, target: on 
input : The cat sat on, target : the
input : The cat sat on the target: mat 

The errors are computed (cross entropy loss function.) 
Hence we are ccreating input-target pairs.

Small batch sizes require less memory during training but lead to more noisy model updates